[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to add
a collision and rigid body to our player.
We are going to add some
collision to our environment so
that we can drop our player.
And he goes, oop, clunk,
and lands on our world.
Okay, let's jump in and talk collisions.
This is a good time for
us to prefab our player, dragging it
down into our assets folder down here.
Time to create a prefab itself as well,
I think, so
that we can keep our prefabs nice and
tidy as we start to create them.
Put our player into there.
It's good to be considering your
player as a prefab as you go along,
cuz when we start to have multiple levels,
we need to make sure that anything we do
in the player is gonna be fine and dandy
as we go through those various levels.
Okay, when we look at our player, the
first thing we need to do is to make sure
that the player has
some sort of collision.
And some sort of rigidbody so that we can
apply forces to it, so add a component
first of all add rigidbody, rigidbody,
and we'll add rigidbody 2D in this whole
section of the course you'll see that
we're looking for the 2D option in each of
these, very similar to regular
3D rigidbody but rigidbody 2D.
We have under body type dynamic,
kinematic, and static.
I want to take just a brief moment,
if you haven't already got those
embedded in your mind what they mean.
That we have in terms of rigidbodies,
the rigidbody
component brings the game object under
the forces of the physics engine and
because it's 2D,
it's only moving on the x y axis.
The body types dynamic
means that gravity and
physics forces will apply
to this game object.
If we change that to kinematic,
it means it has infinite mass.
If its kinematic, it has infinite mass
which means that we have to push it
from point to point, we can't rely on
the physics of the gravity to do that,
gravity just won't apply.
And if we have it as static it means
it has collisions but no movement.
And we talked about, Ben and
I talked about, what is the right sort of
rigidbody to have for our player and we
think that dynamic rigidbody is gonna be
more interesting so we can play
around with some of the physics.
We can have it bounce and
jump and boing and slide and
all that kind of good stuff to play around
with a different aspect of Unity so
that's we're going to set up our character
so if we have a look at our rigid body.
It's already on dynamic and the second
thing that we need in here in order for
our character to be colliding
with the world is a collider.
So we will go for a,
I think we use a captural collider 2D.
It's a little neater having a capsule
collider than having a box.
Let's have a look at that.
So if I click on the player and
then zoom in,
we can see it's just a big circle
at the moment, not so good.
I need to play around
with that a little bit.
Shrink it in a touch.
Lower it down.
The goal here is to have it pretty much
where the player's feet are at that
point so
there's no discernible difference.
And because our frames of animation
are going to bounce around a little bit,
we don't need to have it exactly,
exactly precise, but pretty good.
I think that's a little bit narrower.
And how is it height wise, too high so
shrink down a little bit, also drop it
down a little bit just raising it lowering
it here, I think that's pretty good.
The feet might be a tiny bit under
there so we will end up with,
I think I need to type this in
manually .6432 there we go.
So I've got an Offset of -.06 on the X and
-.12 on the Y,
and Size of .45 on the X and
.77 on the Y that's what I've got there.
We could make it a little bit higher, a
little bit more to the right I think, but
that is decent for now, so
now we have a Collider.
If we click play, what happens?
You can probably guess,
our player is going to go, zoink.
It has gravity, but there's nothing for
it to actually land on.
So this is where I'd like
to give you a challenge.
That challenge is, make your player land.
Set up the capsule collider and RigidBody
on the player as we've just done.
Set up Collision on your environment and
go for what works.
When we come back in I'm
going to show you a trick
that will make your tile
collision even more awesome.
Here's a change for you to dig around and
see if you can figure out how best to add
collision with the set up that we've got.
With the tile map set up that we've got,
a little bit of investigative
journalism for you here.
And to have the player drop and
land without falling over, so there's
a challenge for you jump in and see if
your ready to take on that challenge and
I'll come back with my
solution when you are back.
Right so we've got our player set up next
we need to jump over to our tile map grid,
I'm going to click on full ground
the background doesn't need collision it's
just there for
good looks of the moment but
we need to have something
on the fore ground.
The fore ground needs to
have a couple of components.
First of all we need to have,
jump over in the components,
a tile map Collider 2D nicely set up for
us, where it immediately
applies to anything that is a tile
that's being painted onto the tile map.
And you can see it set it up as a grid.
So you might have got to that point and
said, yes i'm done this is amazing.
One thing that you'll find is that,
if I scroll in all the way here there's
a miniscule, tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny,
tiny, can you see that in there?
Wonder hoe far it's gonna let me go.
Between this collision on the right and
that collision on the left,
there's just a tiny fraction different.
Because we cannot get them exactly
exactly the same, and that means that
sometimes your player could clip
into that and touch that collision.
It also looks a little bit messier to have
all of these boxes with all this collision
and all of this information on here, so
we can add to this something really cool,
which is a composite collider 2D.
By adding that and then going to our
tile map collider 2D and saying,
used by composite.
It will apply one macro
collision around the entirety by joining
together those individual collision boxes.
So you can see, it's a little bit hard to
see on here, but if you have a look there,
you can see the green outline goes
the whole way around the outside there.
If I was to turn that off in
terms of the use with collision,
use by composite, sorry.
Turn it off, turn it back on.
It's basically joining them all together.
When we added that, it also added
a rigidbody 2D, that's a requirement.
And we are going to change
the rigidbody 2D to static.
We don't need it to move, we don't need
it to be bouncing around in the world,
it is just gonna be a static rigidbody 2D,
so we have the composite collider,
we have our tile map collider
that is used by composite and
we have our rigidbody 2D
all work in harmony there.
The last step is to grab our player,
this is actually the second last step,
grab our player,
throw him up in the world,
drop it down and boink not too bad at all.
I say it's the second last step because
when we start to move around our character
we'll see something pretty interesting
happening as we bump into things,
our character is potentially
going to rotate.
So when we click on the player, jump over
to the rigidbody 2D, find the constraints.
And freeze the rotation on the Z Axis.
Z or Z axis so
that our play is not accidentally
rotating around as their moving.
And as a last bit of finesse, if we had
a tile that wasn't exactly filling out
the tile space, maybe it had a little
bit of a dip in it, or an edge or
a slight ramp, then what we can do
is to go over into our sprite sheet.
Couple of things we can do in here.
If we click on our sprite sheet, go to the
sprite editor, we have the ability to come
into the sprite editor and
then edit the physics shape.
And you'll see that we have these
white squares around the outside, and
if I move this, then the actually physics
outline is going to move for that tile.
So I'll just do something
a little bit crazy like that.
And then apply this.
Jump back into my scene.
So that was applied for the corner pieces.
Click on, it takes sometimes a little
bit of time to update this and
to see what's going on.
I'll turn off our composite for
the moment.
So we can see that nice and
clearly, use by composite.
There we go.
So
you can see that's updated
this physics shape on here
to something not very elegant or
very pretty.
But that is how we could
manipulate the individual shape of
our collision on individual tiles.
There's another thing we
can do with the tiles.
If you go to your tile assets themselves,
so
find something that is a .asset file,
that is a tile asset, and
I'll find that same piece in there,
which is this Rock_0.
You can see under here there's
Collider Type Sprite, Grid and None.
If I change this to grid,
then it should say,
instead of doing that funky collision
physics outline I just created,
it should apply just straight up grid
outline on that, which it has done.
And then let's check that
if we use Bicomposite
then it stitches it all together nice and
neatly as it did before.
Okay, so I'll go back and just undo
the mess that I created on this tile here,
that was the illustrative purposes,
you don't need to go and mess up your
collision like that, your physics shaped
like that, is drag it back up to where it
was, drag up there, right that should
be nice and neat, reapply that.
Good to go.
So we've got our physics set up,
couple of different options there.
Our player, let's apply that back to
to the prefab, get into that habit now.
Click play,
see what happens when we drop the player
down to the world, clunk, perfect.
We've got our player ready to go and
ready to moved around in our world.
Great stuff in this lecture and
I'll see you in the next video.